# Interview
% by Lexi Summer Hale

She has no idea how long it's been.

There is very little in the bleak, windowless stone cell. A cot. A lamp up above that casts the tiny room in dim, sterile light. A heavy metal door without so much as a knob, or even a keyhole. Nothing else. No clock to tell her the time, nothing but the beating of her own heart to tell her it's passing at all. The sheets are far too thin, and she's doubled them up as best she can, huddled shivering underneath to protect her naked, still-damp body from the chill.

She starts when she hears the resounding digital blare and quiet *thunk* of the door unlocking. Her instincts shriek at her to get to her feet, stand at attention, but she doesn't have it in her anymore to obey them. Heart pounding, she fixes her eyes on the door as it slides back, and a figure steps into the cell. A woman. Not particularly tall but well-built; her bare arms are a show of sleek, taut muscle, and her abs are visible even through her uniform.

A uniform Cassil Tegvari recognizes all too well.

Dark, green flex-fabric robes wrap tightly about the officer's body, accentuating the curves of her back and hips, around which is tied a short black sash. A heavy fabric *shevcal* is strapped across her chest to protect her heart and lungs from blades or bullets; black armbands with white emblems encircle her upper arms. Her legs are covered by silver leggings that reach just below her knees. Elegant leather combat gauntlets, the same color and material as her boots, run from her knuckles to her elbow. It's the unmistakable garb of a Shevran footsoldier.

The girl buries her head in the pillow again.

"Cassil, right?" The officer's tones are almost kind; nothing like what Cassil expected from this place. She mumbles something into the pillow in reply.

Footsteps. She cracks an eyelid, turning her head to see the officer kneeling down by the bunk, holding up a neatly folded grey *rancal.* "I brought you clothing," she says gently.

Part of Cassil wants to just turn away, close her eyes, and lay there catatonic until the woman goes away. But the tiny rational part of her that's still conscious knows full well they'll keep her here forever if she doesn't cooperate -- they have all the time in the world, and she's cold, alone, and miserable. Cooperation is her only hope of getting out of here.

And a robe will at least make the chill a bit more bearable.

With a quivering hand she reaches out. Between the terror, fury, and temperature she's shaking like a leaf in the wind; the officer catches her wrist and tugs gently. "On your feet, comrade," she says. It's an order, but a gentle one.

Reluctantly, cheeks burning, Cassil forces herself to stand. As the blankets fall away from her slight frame the cold attacks her body with renewed ferocity, and she can barely keep her knees from giving in, can barely control her hands enough to clasp them behind her back.

The officer motions for her to turn, and as she does grips Cassil by the hair, forcing her head down with a fluid, practiced motion. The girl lets out a whimper as a cold steel reader plate is pressed to the back of her neck; she hears a handset chirp. The Shevran thug releases her hair and takes her by the shoulder, tugging lightly until Cassil turns back to face her.

"Cassil Tegvari you indeed are," the woman says, holstering her handset and proferring the robe. "Do you need help getting dressed?"

"…who are you?" Cassil demands weakly, snatching the robe and trying to don it, though the tremors keep her from making much progress. "What the fuck do you want?"

_"Safris-varlas valte,"_ the woman replies, stepping behind Cassil and taking the garment from her hands. She winds it quickly about the girl's torso. "And you're being awfully impertinent for someone in your position, don't you think, _shevan?"_ Her tone is light and teasing; no sign of anger or offense.

"Whatever." Cassil folds her arms and stares at the wall. The feeling of fabric on her body again is an enormous relief; despite how little protection the detainee greys offer her from the chill, she feels… not safe, but infinitely less vulnerable.

"Come." Safris takes hold of her upper arm to lead her out of the room, but before Cassil can even open her mouth to protest, her trembling legs give out beneath her and she stumbles. Safris quickly catches her by the waist and helps her back to the bed. "Are you injured, comrade?" the officer asks worriedly, sitting next to the girl.

Cassil shakes her head silently, pulling the blankets back up over her body. Tears are streaming down her cheeks now, and she can't meet Safris' gaze.

Safris frowns, tilting her head. "I can summon a medic if you need one—? Or—" She stops as the girl's shoulders start to shake. Cassil buries her head in the pillow.

"You're not in very good shape, are you, Cassi?" Safris says quietly, her tone shifting by several degrees of intimacy.

Cassil just shakes her head, and begins to quietly sob.

Safris scoots closer, puts an arm around Cassil's waist, and the girl collapses against her side, eyes and nose already red from crying. Safris puts a hand around the back of the girl's neck, squeezing softly. "Shh," she murmurs; "it's okay."

The warmth from Safris' body is enough to drive out the chill, and bit by bit the shivering slows; the tears ebb. The officer shows no sign of hurry or irritation, holding Cassil tightly until she finally opens her eyes and, with difficulty, sits up again.

"Why are you being so kind to me?" she asks. She can't make herself look Safris in the eye.

"Because you're one of us. What more reason do I need?" Safris' tone shifts, becoming more professional, but the warmth remains. "Are you going to be able to walk? I can fetch a wheelchair if need be--"

Cassil shakes her head. "I'm f-- I'm fine," she mumbles.

"I'll be the judge of that." Safris stands, tugging Cassil by her wrists, and reluctantly the girl gets to her feet. She's unsteady, but Safris takes firm hold of her, one hand on her upper arm, the other at her waist, and guides her towards the door. Something about the way Safris is touching her makes Cassil feel… oddly comfortable and safe. They pass into a small security chamber, and Safris keys her handset. After a moment, there's another blare and the second door ahead of them unbolts itself, sliding slowly back to reveal a long, dark corridor outside.

Safris is joined by two further officers standing at the door to the cell, one of whom takes Cassil by the other arm -- half supporting her, half restraining her. The other stays well ahead of the trio, and a chill runs down her spine when the girl notices a sidearm holstered at his thigh.

*What have I gotten myself into?*

The team escorts her through a maze of hallways, past a checkpoint where her identity implant is scanned yet again, and finally through another thick steel door into a bleak gray room. A metal table takes up the center of the room, with chairs on either side — one of them bolted to the floor. The ceiling rises high over their heads, and Cassil notices an angled mirror high up along the wall -- almost certainly a one-way window. 

*Who's watching us up there?*

Safris and the other woman lead Cassil to a chair and seat her there carefully. Cassil can't even muster the energy to struggle as they fasten her wrists with a pair of handcuffs bolted to the tabletop -- the big padded kind they use when they mean to keep you cuffed for a good long time.

Safris fastens the final strap and steps back, keying her handset. "Clear," she calls, nodding to the other officers, who back away and file out of the room. Safris takes up a post by the door, clasping her hands behind her back and inclining her head respectfully as it opens and a tall, lanky figure enters into the room.

"Good evening, Ward Cassil."

The girl fixes her eyes dully on the newcomer as she seats herself at the table, the way a wild animal caught in a trap might look up at an approaching hunter. The woman is dressed in a uniform like Safris' but without the breastplate or gauntlets -- a bureaucrat, not a fighter. She flips open a laptop with her free hand, and scrutinizes the screen as she speaks. "My name is Seruan. I'm pleased we can finally meet, and I apologize for the delay."

"Just 'Seruan'?" Cassil glares. "What about your fancy title, *comrade?"*

Seruan doesn't take the bait. "My full title is Shevran Mediator Seruan Fesmadi, if you wish to know," she replies mildly. "Now then, if you don't mind, I would like for us to review the facts of your situation, so as to ensure we're both on the same page for this interview."

Cassil shrugs. "Whatever. Not like listening to you could hurt as much as getting flogged again." She hesitates. "Probably," she adds, eyeing Seruan carefully.

"Your cooperation is appreciated." Seruan's gaze turns back to the laptop, the blue light of its screen reflecting in her emerald eyes. "You are Cassil Mirsali Roshi Tegvari," she begins, "ward two-six-ten-two-fifteen of _Rantal_ Tegvar, age seventeen years. You are currently assigned to your commune's unskilled labor pool. You have been subjected to Militia sanctions seven times in the past year for various infractions, ranging from insubordination and disrespectful conduct to misuse of telecommunications infrastructure, truancy, and evasion of duty. Do you contest any of these facts?"

For a moment, the only sound is the hum of the ventilation ducts. "…no," Cassil finally says, gritting her teeth.

"Very good." Seruan pauses to key something into the laptop before returning her gaze to Cassil. "Do you know why you're here, comrade?"

"You tell me."

A small smile flits across Seruan's face, so subtle and so fast that Cassil almost doesn't notice it. "As you wish," the mediator replies. "You are in Shevran custody due to the incident that transpired on the twenty-sixth night of the third moon this year." She steeples her fingers. "Ordinarily, even such a blatant case of insubordination and civic conflict would not be cause for Shevran intervention. However, your recent past has been marked by persistent mutinous conduct. After a review of available materials and consultation with your _virtash_ it was judged necessary to intervene."

There's a hint of her usual fire in Cassil's voice now. "That's a real pretty way to say you're locking me up because I wasn't interested in sucking off th—"

"You are not here to be punished." Seruan's voice remains implacably gentle. "You have been subjected to no end of corporal punishment for your transgressions, to apparently little effect — if anything, it seems to have amplified your misbehavior. That tells me something is wrong." She glances at the laptop again. "To permit the status quo to continue unmoderated would risk undermining the long-term community cohesion of Rantal Tegvar, and poses an immediate risk to your own wellbeing. Would you agree with that?"

Cassil narrows her eyes. "My 'wellbeing?' Is that a threat?"

Seruan favors her with an amused smile. "Comrade Cassil, if I meant to threaten you with bodily harm I would do so plainly. I assure you, nothing can be further from my intentions."

"Then what the fuck do you mean?"

"I see two ways in which the Tegvar situation is to your detriment," Seruan replies. "Firstly, community cohesion is a matter that affects every citizen -- any damage that your reckless behavior does to your _rantal_ will ultimately entail you in its aftermath. Secondly — in theory, corporal punishment serves two purposes. Primarily it is intended to inflict a severe but transient trauma that will force the subject into a state of vulnerability conducive to reintegration. But that trauma also functions as a form of aversion therapy, reducing the likelihood of repeat offense. To this end, it is usually quite effective.

"However, practice is at times messier than theory. In your case, for instance. You do not benefit from the normal aversive and re-integrative effects of corporal punishment -- instead, you appear to be trapped in a vicious cycle of purposeless trauma. This benefits no one, you least of all."
